\input texinfo

@c NOTE: This template-standalone.texi shows how to create a texinfo file
@c that yields a stand-alone MYTOPIC.info file.
@c See template.texi for a texinfo file which is to be part of maxima.info.

@c NOTE: The content of this file was determined by tedious trial and error.
@c My advice is to keep all elements of this template, from \input to @bye,
@c otherwise you'll experience cryptic error messages, hair loss, etc.

@c makeinfo MYTOPIC.texi         to make .info
@c texi2html MYTOPIC.texi        to make .html
@c texi2pdf MYTOPIC.texi         to make .pdf

@setfilename circuits.info
@settitle circuits

@ifinfo 
@macro var {expr}
<\expr\>
@end macro
@end ifinfo

@node Top, Introduction to circuits, (dir), (dir)
@top
@menu
* Introduction to circuits::
* Definitions for circuits::
* Function and variable index::
@end menu
@chapter circuits

@node Introduction to circuits, Definitions for circuits, Top, Top
@section Introduction to circuits

@code{circuits} is an package for analyzing electric circuits.

@node Definitions for circuits, Function and variable index, Introduction to circuits, Top
@section Definitions for circuits

@deffn {Function} kirchhoff_laws (@var{I}, @var{net})

Returns a list with equations by Kirchhoff's current conservation laws.
The argument @var{I} is used as indexed variable representing each terminal current.

For more information about terminal, see @code{load_netlist}.

@end deffn

@deffn {Function} load_netlist (@var{filename})

Returns a list with three elements
that are generated from netlist file @var{filename}.
The first element is a number of total terminals,
the second is part-list, and the third is node-list.
Consecutive numbers are automatically generated for all terminals.

Currently, only PSIM netlist format (.cct file) is supported.
An example of PSIM netlist format.
@example
.TIME 1E-005 0.01 0 1 0 0 0 0 0
R R1 1 2 8k 0 
R R2 3 4 500 0 
R R3 1 5 50 0 
C C1 4 2 0.1u 0 0 
C C2 4 1 0.1u 0 0 
OP_AMP U1 0 2 1 5 -5 
C C3 5 6 1000p 0 0 
OP_AMP U2 6 7 7 5 -5 
C C4 5 7 0.01u 0 0 
R R4 6 0 1k 0 
VP V2 7 
VSIN V1 3 0 220 50 0 0 0 
@end example
The first element of each rows means a kind of part of row,
which implies a number of terminal of the part in the view point of netlist,
the second means a part number,
the third means a node number connected with the first terminal,
and similar correspondences follow by the number of rest of terminals.
Other extra elements are part/simulation characteristics such as parameters, initial condition, and current flag.
The node indexed by 0 means ground IN THIS FORMAT.

The returned part-list is a list of part information.
Each element is also a list with kind, symbol(part number),
a list of terminal number(s)
a list of part characteristics.

Terminal numbers are generated automatically and consecutively from 1.

The returned node-list is a list of lists of terminals.
Each element is a list of terminal numbers which are connected with a same node.

@end deffn

@deffn {Function} parts_laws (@var{V}, @var{I}, @var{parts}, @var{net})

Returns a list of equations by current conservation laws in each part
and impedance laws such as Ohm's law.
@var{I} is used indexed variable representing each terminal current.
@var{V} is used indexed variable representing each node voltage.

NOTE: The index for voltage indexed variable starts from 1
rather than 0 because of compatibility with Maxima list.
The index 1 means ground
and the equation @var{V[1]=0} is included in the returned value.

Currently, only sin voltage source is recognized in various sources,
and its output (voltage between terminals) is normalized to 1
rather than sin wave.
You can get a gain of each node against the source as a result
after solving equations.

@end deffn

@deffn {Function} part_parameters (@var{parts})

Returns a list of equations between a part symbol and its value,
such as R1=8e3.

It is useful when substituting concrete values for symbols
in related equations.

@end deffn

@defvr {Variable} kind_index
Default value: 1

Index of the kind of part in PSIM netlist.

@end defvr

@defvr {Variable} node_index
Default value: 3

Index of the head of connected nodes in PSIM netlist.

@end defvr

@defvr {Variable} symbol_index
Default value: 2

Index of the part number in PSIM netlist.

@end defvr

@node Function and variable index,  , Definitions for circuits, Top
@appendix Function and variable index
@printindex fn
@printindex vr

@bye
